# pandas_challenge

# DISCLAIMER: The PyCitySchools_starter.ipynb sample solution was used as a template for my analysis

# Summary: As the new Chief Data Scientist for my city's school district, I have created an analysis to help the school board and mayor make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities. In the provided district-wide standardized test results, I had access to every student's math and reading scores, as well as other various information about the school the student's attend. The first analysis completed was a district summary including the total number of unique schools, total students, total budget, average math score, average reading score, % of students who passed math, % of students who passed reading, and overall % of students who passed math and reading. The second analysis completed was a school summary including the school name, school type, total students, total school budget, budget per student, average math score, average reading score, % of students who passed math, % of students who passed reading, and overall % of students who passed math and reading. Finally, analysis were completed to show the highest performing schools by overall %, lowest performing schools by overall %, math scores by grade level, reading scores by grade level, scores by school spending, scores by school size, and scores by school type. 

# Analysis: As a whole, the percentage of students passing math are lower than the percentage of students passing reading. Similarly, average math scores are lower than average reading scores. As a whole, the schools with the lowest spending range per student (<$585) produced the highest average math, average reading, % passing math, % passing reading and % overall passing scores. In summary, as the spending range per student increases the average math, average reading, % passing math, % passing reading and % overall passing scores decrease. When comparing charter school types versus district school types, a clear difference is identified. As a whole, charter school types produce much higher average math, average reading, % passing math, % passing reading and % overall passing scores than district school types. In conclusion, as the spending range per student increases, student scores decreases; additionally, charter school types produce higher scores than district school types.
